suppose hyper pram stuff is bothering me
you
know like I'm basically at this point
I'm trying to talk myself out of
using uh G processes at
all but I think you probably want to use
Gan
stuff going on here all right wrong
branch
that's all right it's not this one
anymore it's
um how did meeting go meeting went very
well lot of stuff today um arm made one
of the servers had a good meeting
potential client
meeting um and what else oh I got a a
good chunk of my gym equipment delivered
like seven 8 900 lbs of equipment I
don't know a lot of
equipment um so that's
nice let me
see I still don't have my rack
camera all right you can't really see
how nice these plates are but whatever
I'm very happy with
HTML okay so this is where we were last
time
right I do
this I basically just need to figure out
what the heck is going on on
um with the these gaussian processes in
here okay plus 38 that's
OBC about one how about
one no not
one then like two or three maybe
welcome I guess I should briefly say
what it is I'm trying to do here
huh let me test one or two more things
and I'll give a little explanation
because this is something that I think
is going to be very very
important seems like it's right here
this Spike right
okay it's exponential
so we can't go much past
five it goes
insane you can actually see the score
reversion to me in
so that is an
interesting interesting interesting
result okay
I suppose I should
explain what it is that's going on here
so uh I'm attempting to make a
ludicrously good hyperparameter sweep
algorithm for reinforcement learning
because I think that this is going to be
the single largest thing I can do to
improve RL is just make solid consistent
trustable hyper Fram
sweeps um it should speed up all
experiments by a factor of 2 to 10 just
across the board in the field
uh and what I'm doing at the moment here
uh
is the way the algorithm works it's
based on random samples they're not
uniform random samples they're carefully
chosen but essentially the algorithm is
going to propose like several thousand
points uh and then you use a learned
Model A gaussian process to rank which
of these points you should
consider um but the gan process which is
very commonly used for this approach uh
for this area it has some weird
properties that make it not really
usable directly out of the
box so in particular uh the way a gan
process works it's kind of like a fuzzy
nearest neighbor thing where if you're
nearby some points it estimates based on
those points uh but if you're far away
from points it reverts to a mean it
usually reverts to zero so so what
people do is they try to like put their
data into a standard normal so it like
reverts to a reasonable mean but you
can't really just do that it doesn't
like that doesn't give you what you want
so for instance here like it's saying
that the average value that it should
revert to is something over here instead
of like fitting a line or doing
something
reasonable
um yeah so this is just not great and
then the other thing I figured out
recently was that cost before if you
don't set it up correctly cost reverts
to zero as well so like it will
systematically say that your experiments
are going to be cheaper than they
actually are so there basically there's
a bunch of weird math and biases that
I'm trying to fix here what are you
experimenting on is this one of the
experiments from your Iceberg video um
do I cover hyperr sweeps in there I
don't know if I cover it directly but
it's very it's very clearly related so
in the iceberg video I talk about how we
want to run uh tens of thousands
hundreds of thousands of
experiments and we have all the M's now
to do that everything is fast uh but
what this is for this is going to
increase the speed at which we can run
those experiments but also it's going to
give us a lot more confidence in their
outcomes cost is much simpler than Epoch
it's just the time and seconds that your
experiment takes to
run so that's what you care about right
you care about how long it takes to run
your
code there were ways to automate hyper
paramet yeah that's what we're working
on this is the
algorithm only have experience with
CNM I mean I have uh did you see my
quick start guide if you're looking to
pick up some
RL we've got a a nice guide for people
looking to get involved with this
here that's a quick start guide it's a
very practical guide minimal math
minimal background papers gives you some
if
I well I don't really know what I'm
doing here half the
time the thing is I kind of don't have
to
um the only thing that it that is
required for me to have confidence in my
work is for me to to know I'm the most
qualified person to do
it right you don't have to know what
you're doing all the time if nobody in
their right mind would reasonably know
what they're doing with this
mess it's like I'm doing it because I
figure I'm probably the most qualified
to figure it out and if I do figure it
out it'll be really good
I don't know they're probably some like
Niche math people that also would do a
pretty fine job of this because I'm a
little out of my area with the uh the
statistical modeling
here but
practically and I'll nail it pretty
well cuz like the thing that's weird
here right it doesn't take too much math
to see this what's happening is as you
get far away from these points the
predictions get pulled over to
here any specific algorithm you're
optimizing hyper parameters with so what
I'm trying to fix this is a new
algorithm it's based on M bui's carbs
algorithm but with heavy mathematical
and Engineering changes
you'll get to the point where you know
what you're doing just when you're
writing normal
code actually writing normal code is
like M code especially like writing High
per Sims is super chill for me
now said you're one of the few people
doing
stuff well hey you know AI become uh a
pretty lucrative career to say the least
so a lot of people are just uh you know
they're working behind closed doors at
companies now which I think is
unfortunate we should have more people
doing their own stuff in the
open but llms are particularly annoying
because they've made AI very Capital
intensive so it's really hard to do
stuff in the open with like the amount
of capital that you need Behind these
stupid things is why I like RL I don't
have to deal with that
mess I'll let the thousands of people
who are already trying to do that on
that train deal with that I'll fix RL I
got this guys
what if we do
this
okay doing this normalize Max cost we
leave this
doing some research on cancer whole
slide images using RL for
[Music]
determining for image recognition
interesting uh why is that an RL problem
instead of just a classification
problem like why what's the portion that
requires a reward function
the existence of cancer as a problem for
Humanity pisses me off like you should
by now you should be able to buy a
$2,000 scanning machine that like sits
in your shower and just scans you in the
morning and says no cancer detected or
I mean okay the like is there an easier
way of doing that other than turning
your shower into an
MRI I mean there'd be demand for that
for
sure sell a ton of those
quality of images are high gets
expensive to train do inference on
images having found an algorithm that
can
train isn't it local though can't you
train on
patches I mean like what's the
resolution of the actual cell
pictures pretty much everyone just
trains on patches
single cell RNA
sequencing both these and we can make a
reward function that determines what
the is this not a labeled data set
though how do you have a reward function
for something like this do you have a
SIM somehow I see a reward function but
don't have labeled data
I haven't been envisioned in a very long
time but
um I would think some sort of model that
you can do patch based and then just
like scale It Up by feeding in more
patches to the same classification
output oh so you don't just have a data
set of these cells are cancer like these
images of these cells these cells are
cancer and these ones aren't
I mean the thing is that data exists
right like that data exists hospitals
have it and actually like they package
it together sometimes and they like like
they have it and they keep it
proprietary like you should just if I
were trying to F solve this problem I
would just like go after the people
preventing you from using the data for
research and just like make their lives
miserable uh via you know whatever
actions I could
legal um you know what however the hell
you can like try to like get that data
out into public that would be what i' do
if I really wanted to like you know make
push this research forward it's really
tough without data
there cell labeling through inference of
what they
produce can tell it's pretty tough to
get well the data exists right for
like doesn't it like hospitals have it
right just like over time from all the
patient dat like the patient data exist
doesn't it it's just not anywhere you
can get it easily
yeah screw that though like oh no
privacy you can't get some pictures of
my cell like you're killing everyone
with cancer with these
regulations like we'd have we'd have
like if you just gave us data it would
be solved right it's an ml problem data
in solution
out hard to get labels of what each cell
is I see
H well that's the main reason I don't do
stuff in medical is the
regulation because like frankly a lot of
these problems it's way it's like way
more practical to try to like axe the
regulations around them holding you back
than trying to get really clever with
the algorithms that's the annoying part
right you'll do way more for cancer
research in a day by like getting an
exception added to these things that
lets you do the research than you will
ever by coming up with clever algorithms
that's the unfortunate bit of
it we take a whole systems approach here
puffer the problem may be attacked in
any way way
possible I don't know if I really like
if this were the problem that I were
trying to solve at the moment I would
try to go get like you know a few like
really good medical people like
well-respected medical people in this
space and like take them to Washington
and with the new Administration that's
shaking up a whole bunch of stuff very
quickly you know see if you can get this
to be one of the things that gets cut
that way uh know at least there an
exception ated
might be better to beg for my grant
funding that's
but frankly like now is a very good time
to try to do crazy stuff like this
um I don't really need to in my space CU
my stuff isn't impacted by regulation so
much but in medical space
right hard problem that's also
legitimate right maybe there are legit
like maybe there are actually technical
things that can be done but um it's a
heck of a lot easier when you have all
the
yeah it's a good quick read i'
suggested I'm going to focus on this for
a little bit
so I mean anything outside the
support is getting pulled over to here
and like here right this is where it
should be getting
pulled oh no wait hold on I'm stupid
very very very
stupid see this this
better actually we'll do contrast like
better you see
this this is what happens when you pull
it up this way now we're pulling it down
to
here all right so everything that's not
confident gets pulled down to
here see that there are still good
points
right where things are
confident and now we get to look at the
kernels here this is just the matern
[Music]
scale we add in the linear kernel
because linear kernel should be useful
hell how does this make any bloody
sense somebody please tell me
it's not pulling them down to here
anymore
right what is this
I need that freaking linear kernel too
for my test I know I need that linear
kernel is it
I can do this but I don't think this is
a reasonable
kernel I mean so this is everything
getting
pulled over here
in what space is the matern kernel
operating hang
on well the thing is like we know that
this is Bullocks right like this this
whole top section doesn't exist so this
is all [ __ ]
I mean it's
like it's still useless this is not good
this data
it was so obnoxious
because with the matern kernel it was
kind of reasonable
right starting to look kind of
reasonable
we could do a simpler
algorithm up with my camera
reason there we
go
I'm wondering if there's any reason that
I wouldn't just be able to replace
you're not going to have a linear fed
that's the
issue
artifacts I don't know I haven't used
the model
that's better than before isn't
it hang on that actually looks
points that's crazy
not I mean I would want to go find one
like I could try it I guess but all
these models are increment improvements
on each other like the capabilities are
not vastly vastly
different and most of my work I'm not
here like typing stuff into a language
model I occasionally use them for like
background stuff but
um like I'm not like I'm not writing my
code with a language model I have I have
single line auto complete in my editor
that's all I use for that I mostly use
these things for background
material I mean I have some charts now
as you can see here but
for the most part I'm not doing a ton of
visualization
work uh with
that okay so you can kind of see this
front where it's getting dragged down
this
way these seem very optimistic to me
these
points maybe there is something to the
return that's
matern okay yeah so mat turn here is a
lot more
conservative you can very clearly see
the front it's being dragged
to cost goes this way when it's
uncertain score goes this
way hey how's it
going I me what do we think about this
is like this could be a
decent we might be ready to run some
experiments with this
how was it going almost out of blender H
how I guess you get to pick up some
animation
stuff and
hell your renderer got a lot fancier I
saw I went to look at the code to give
somebody a 3D example I was like
okay there's some stuff in here all the
lights
[ __ ] hey
guys uh I got perfect hyper pram sweep
data on this synthetic
test it did let's
see 47 it predicted got
46 did 1 39
5 very accurate on the
147 um
this looks
good guess let's rerun it with the
linear kernel just to double check but I
think the linear kernel
sucks because it biases
[ __ ] I think we're just going to keep
the mat turn
kernel kind of awkward
6800 very
nice and keep on
same it's a little farther out actually
okay maybe linear kernel not terrible
there's a lot of new science stuff to
try uh to work on as well
Spencer I'm uh man there's so much to do
I gotta keep I got to figure out where
the contact at the robotics company went
CU I'm try to get something with
them we've got three potentials like
three good leads at the moment
on uh new contracts
potentially I'm hoping we at least get
one of
them that'd be
good science
soon to be fair the science is still a
bunch of
engineering CU that's generally how I do
stuff but uh
it's more
science okay so that's a perfect run
right we're in agreement that that is a
perfect
run what happens when we do this
percentile task
engines still need to be written in
C oh yeah let me go check for them
because I owe them
work well it's a free collab but
still me
tired yeah
I owe a ton of people work on stuff it's
a lot of
mid March I should be done and have more
okay they always take a while to get
around to stuff so probably
what transer am I using right now what
transform
work let me try this without the linear
kernel real
quick and for reference here um even
though it looks like this is a very good
result this is a percentile task so the
uh the error tolerance is very low on
this
better well it is kind of better in the
sense that
um it didn't freaking go to
crazy yeah you see it didn't go to crazy
cost
us we got
996 at
56 and then 997 at 67
so these two
points and then these are all so there's
really only one bad sample here right
hold
point NE carbs man I don't know it's
this is
hard all right this is
hard looks better without the linear
kernel to
this nothing is there good docks on yes
but the docks for Isaac Jim are part of
the Isaac JY
download so they give you the HTML files
and then you run your web you run
a local web
server to be able to read the docks it's
kind of funny they just like hand you
the HTML and you just run
it you're tired you you are a sleep
deprived high school student
see I've missed like an hour of sleep
two days in a row and I'm freaking
exhausted all
point probably somewhere in your early
20s is a good time to stop doing
that doesn't mean don't work
hard you can
work at
least you can work 70 to 80 hours a week
uh and still get a bit of exercise and
still get sleep just can't do much
else see you later y see Spencer
all okay so with good data
this model seems like a clear
win now what does this model do when you
don't have good
10 and then the number of runs will be
20 start with the linear
what oh it's just the god album I get it
yeah
totally no problem at all still the god
out that makes perfect sense
okay no big deal guys we just uh we just
discovered the god
hoam we'll see if it works on real
problems but this looks this kind of
looks like the god algorithm I'm just
just turn 19
congrats make made it another
year yeah I mean 19 was that freshman or
sophomore year
undergrad yeah I worked
like probably 90h hour weeks most of my
freshman year uh
and probably almost at my sophomore
year
um didn't get any exercise I probably
could have gotten more sleep but I was
doing like 80 90 hour weeks and then
screwing around a bunch the rest of the
time going to dumb parties and stuff so
which to be fair I think is important I
don't know what your background is but I
basically had like no fun doing dumb
[ __ ] I had had like no opportunity to
have fun doing dumb [ __ ] before that in
my life so I kind of needed to get it
out of my system for a few years in
undergrad I think that's legitimate
know so it's
like
I want to run an
extra view points just to see what it
the best anxiety killer is
deadlifting I highly suggest
did I screw up am I somehow using the uh
the test
predictions
and they're pretty good
I'd prefer if they were
uh overestimates of
cost but the score underestimates as
well so it's not
bad yeah
okay God algorithm
[Music]
and then the percentile task should be
hard
right just bought some equipment I
forget if you're the one I showed this
to already but
uh is this going to show actually let me
just send this to myself quick
can you message yourself on Discord you
can't can
you and put it in j
my rack isn't here yet but I got my
barbell on my
plates very happy about these
yeah I got nice I got nice uh
plates they
are are these
them yeah these are
them they're nice I just got uh what did
I get 25s and 45s cuz like I don't know
who uses the other
ones they're very
nice oh are these them
black yeah I got not these ones I got
the fringed ones yeah these
ones these ones are cool I don't need
the 35s yeah they're
nice I'm very happy with them
I haven't tried dropping them yet we'll
see uh but I'm sure that they will hold
up very
here so we say 859 we get this we send
this and this
score this is actually very very
close these are very very
close in fact I think that the bad ones
here are just
um yeah some of these are random where
did the bad ones come from the high cost
bad on there's one at like
87 this is the first sample why does it
do this
and then there's one at 60 something
that's
oh this is a random sample yeah it's
blue okay this is a random
sample and then this one
here okay so this one was only possible
because we got an unlucky random sample
this run we know how to fix that uh that
portion of the algorithm
anyways that's very easy for us to
this so this is very easy to model but a
variety of different spaces this is done
like
up we're going to clean up the
code we're going to add a few small
tweaks with clipping and
stuff and then we'll figure out what
environments uh what settings and
environments and such to test this on
this is kind of
okay so yeah for folks watching I just
had to take care of one quick thing I
think we've really gotten the algorithm
right here so now the only question is
going to be cleaning it up doing some
tests
um let's just start on
[Music]
that I'm gonna at least go get myself
first I'll take two minutes we'll start
on this I think this is going to be
really good I think we're going to end
up with a really small uh piece of code
that's going to be able to handle all
this it fix up all the variable names
it's going to be really easy to follow
and uh yeah you'll be able to see uh
what I hope will be the algorithm for
hyper parameter tuning at least in RL
being finished live be right
so well I uh clear my head real quick
and uh get ready for
this I uh this is now an unboxing
stream
see I say 30% chance this is a
completely stupid purchase
20% chance it's
amazing and uh the rest of it chance
that it's just like kind of okay but
doesn't magically solve all my
problems got one of
these overpriced sleep watch thing
recommend Ed by Brian
oops off to a good start shitty
Packaging
okay exceptionally shitty packaging what
the hell
yeah how are you supposed to adjust this
thing
like
thing like defies Common
defies Common
Sense okay there it goes it's just
not okay so this
is always
use and presumably this this is
charger with the world's cheapest tiny
cable
cool this just goes
in
here this or
something I think goes over the
top yeah all right so charges this way
not particularly easy to
charge but this is all it
is it's a
band that you
wear this
way question mark
and this
is watch
band oh it does have a
buckle why was that so tight
and why is it not secured
whatsoever all right whatever we will
figure that out
later uh overpriced watch we'll see if
it actually does anything what did he do
see we'll see what did there whoop did
he do haha
to be fair the watch is free it just
comes with a very expensive subscription
okay we do a little hyper parameter
stuff and then I I think I got to help
out somebody here but uh I want to fix
this up real
quick cuz we
have crazy algorithm here
that looks what is the or is the AA ring
a sleep
tracker I figured it was something more
ridiculous because of the number of SF
people I've seen posting about him
do we have conservative cost estimates
in
anything we do not have conservative
estimates
perfect so I think we just get rid
of all the conservative
estimates cor
sleep it's not Brian Johnson endorsed
out
speaking of which I haven't taken my
ridiculous quantities of pills thank you
for reminding
me oh
Jesus let again
whatever and then we will fix up no
these are vitamins and supplements
caffeine not caffeine it's just a bunch
of vitamin supplements it's just uh
Brian Johnson's like blueprint
thing I don't know I think they're
generally decent I felt better on them
um they're like way overpriced but for
the convenience of having them and
having everything be lab tested it's
pretty
decent that's got to be a ligma there's
no way
we're going get rid of all the stuff
that we were trying before that we
didn't
need don't use quantel
transform we don't use this
it's mostly the variable names that suck
here everything else is
fine at least
like for
numai this
is form
on it's actually not cost to score like
this so it shouldn't be
right me see what do they use in the
paper
okay this is already looking more easy
to follow funny thing about long
variable LS they are absolutely ter
Parable for math because it's just
there's too much freaking stuff to
what up how's it going we're solving
hyper pram
sweeps is what we're
doing log cost standard deviation s what
the hell
do big picture for today is looking like
I think we found the god
algorithm uh it's really freaking good
on all of our synthetic stuff unless I
made a
mistake and we're going to see if once I
clean the code up inspect it for any
possible screw-ups and try it on some
real problems if I have indeed found the
god
algorithm though I am also waiting on
some messages from uh from somebody who
I I might have broken some stuff of
theirs and I need to fix some drivers
for them
that normalize log cost mean so this
is what was this normalize log cost
mean okay so these were the output
variables so this is
VP Y no c mean minus Min log C
stupid this one does each other right
am I stupid
did this wouldn't affect uh I don't
think this would affect anything so
we're still safe on on the algorithm
but I think I did something
stupid I mean the alternative to this is
I could code in perfect silence making
monotonous comments like this constantly
ah yes it is time to revise the code are
they errors in the code ah yes I see
that there's a bug in the code I shall
fix this
bug what the hell is
this normalized log cost hold on
transform scores is this
right and then Norm
scores subtract mean divide by standard
deviation
right have to add the mean and multiply
by the standard
deviation to get a transform scores
right
subtract so this
cancels you
subtract the
men and then you add the men
what I don't know what the hell I did
here does this get used wait hold on
does this get used
it's used by cost mean which we should
use
s well what are you going to comment in
here man
this is just me screwing up basic
transforms
just take a quick look for somebody at
thing I'm
comments I mean I know I understand the
purpose of comments and how to write
comments for the most part
yes everyone knows that the real purpose
of a comment is that it shows up in a
different color in your editor so it
breaks up code because you have a
different color all right you don't
actually read the
comments oh wait I do the same stupid
thing right here
right so I just have a redundant
transform as all
right divides by this this then
multiplies by it and then adds back
the so there is a
so GP log
C get rid of
this and then this
is yeah literally all redundant so we
don't need GP log
C this is just this doesn't get us GP
log C this is just GP
then this is there we shouldn't even
append to mean you just do like
this it's
easier yeah the same thing is ridiculous
right
Norm divided by time so yeah this
is
silly and then we just
oops
DPC the
like you probably need a newer
torch do they have
26 I don't know when they added this but
make sure you got a new enough version
to have
it cuz we don't do anything that would
make torch back end work so that
shouldn't be I mean if you get like a
device not recognized from puffer live
I'll fix that real quick there shouldn't
be anything
unnormalized
forming so this is
what math did you have to go up to my
math suck honestly like relative
to most like good AI people my math is
dog [ __ ] um what did I do I took decent
number of like linear algebra courses
over the years um decent is number I
took like some dynamic system stuff that
I don't remember at all I tried to take
like one math department course and that
was garbage I took some basic
engineering math that I do not
remember
um I don't know that's about it linear
algebra multivariable Cal I mean most of
it is honestly you just
the only math like the only major math
thing right like yes to understand
neural networks it's tempor calculus but
it's only differentiation tensor
calculus uh it's only derivative
calculus and it's the same as single
variable calculus except you swap
everything for a matrix and occasionally
you have to transpose one so it's not
that
bad
um getting very comfortable working with
tensors is not math it's just
engineering
tensor is not a fancy math object it's
just a multi-dimensional
array
um and then I probably should have paid
more attention to my stats because this
would have been easier but frankly I
just don't touch that much much stats
stuff
anyways now where I did invest a lot of
time was in learning how to write better
code than other
people that is where I invested a lot of
time
so I did a ton of research oh also in um
getting like a good perspective like a
good scientific perspective sort of just
getting your head on straight on like
you know how's the field look what
matters in science what things are
likely to push field forward what things
are not likely to push field forward um
how to evaluate quality of research
right basic like getting pretty decent
at basic science I would say that also
was some effort these are things I I
mean my playbook I say is 80%
engineering 15% science maybe 5%
math how'd you learn to write better
code by writing a lot of God awful
code that's about it now stuff could
have saved me some time mind you um
check out puffer lib if you want to see
what how I'm doing stuff now
now but uh programming is just horribly
horribly taught um in high school in
college it's horribly
taught so many people start with Java
Java is a terrible language Java teaches
you negative programming then they teach
you all these abstractions and design
patterns and objectoriented like garbage
and then you eventually you run on to
the academic counterparts of these which
are the functional programmers who think
they're very clever and it's all a
massive waste of time
torch inductor doesn't support well
what's torch inductor we shouldn't be
compiling stuff by default so it should
have a back
end what do you think pushes Fields I
mean my Iceberg video is kind of how I
look at things right so it's not like o
look clever algorithm by other person I
can improve upon clever algorithm and
get 5% higher performance no I look at
reinforcement learning I said hey all
the code in this field sucks none of
this stuff is trustworthy it's also a
thousand times too slow I noticed that
you guys have really really high
variance experiments and you're running
like five of them I also noticed that
results on one domain never ever ever
work in any other domain and this is
like such a commonly known problem that
it's a joke among academics so what is
the solution to this problem you guys
need to actually run decent experiments
with codebases that that don't suck why
can't you run enough experiments well
because your Ms are too slow why are
your M's too slow cuz you didn't bother
to actually put in any effort whatsoever
into making them fast okay so let's make
some fast Ms boom now we have fast M's
that wasn't that bad was it okay cool so
uh uhoh now the whole rest of your stack
makes your M's really slow cuz you drop
performance at every layer okay let's
redo that from scratch oh that was only
like 2,000 lines of total code to
replace tens and tens of thousands of
lines of tools in garbage that's been
used for the past decade okay cool that
works um now we can run a lot of
experiments but uh we're noticing that
stuff is really sensitive to hyper
parameters okay let's look at some of
the good hyper parameter tuning
algorithms out there okay carbs is
pretty good hm I noticed that when we
run all these experiments there are a
few places where carbs fails let's go
look at the carbs code oh that code is
really bad let's go through the code hm
I'm finding a bunch of errors here let's
rewrite this and see if we can really
understand how and why hyperparameter
tuning works that's kind of how my
monologue goes over the course of like
weeks and months and years of
research you see how in there there's
like zero there are zero particularly
complex ideas that require a ton of like
a ton of heavy math or anything right
there's zero particularly complex ideas
there it's just looking at a stuff at a
high level and trying to understand the
levers that move things
how should one move up in programming
build stuff the only way to get better
at writing code is to write code
specifically I mean I'm going to show my
own thing here but if you want to make
some puffer M right I review all them
contributed live on stream and that's a
pretty nice way to learn how to write
lowle very very performant code that
doesn't get in its own way with too many
clever
now we have to go over this meticulously
and make sure I didn't do any of it
wrong
that was super insightful gotcha want
develop that
scope more about it just need to finish
dqs and just create class and I'll get
in it yeah I mean I took those I took
those because they were a random
requirement
um well I've not used I've not done
differential equations once in any of my
work but it's fair I like building stuff
you
know I actually I started out doing um I
started out doing more like math stuff
right more algorithms in math and it
frankly just wasn't very useful for
stuff I wanted to do so like you know
the more stuff I the more I got into
engineering the more useful it was so I
just kept going and frankly like
engineering skills exponential you get
exponentially more useful as you get
better
like a team of mediocre Engineers can go
write 100,000 lines of code to solve a
problem right like very often a really
good engineer will either write a few
hundred lines of code or like write zero
lines of code and figure out that
everything that's being done is
completely redundant
so the funny like oh there are no 10x
Engineers you know nobody's 10 times
more useful than another programmer no
people are a thousand times more useful
than another programmer in fact it
shouldn't be a linear function because a
lot of programmers are doing negative
internships fall through hopefully
internships fall through
geez well we do open sourc stuff there
will be bounties eventually they're not
going to be internship positions for a
while because there's no VC money so
pretty much it's like money in from
clients has to go to people working for
clients and that's about it hopefully we
fix that in the future but uh we're
definitely happy to see open source
stuff pu and way to write L Lev code
mostly code in
Python I mean this has been my latest
thing right I'll probably have different
opinions a year or two from now but
based on my experience so far this has
been a really fun and a really good way
to develop uh you know some lowle skills
to write really performant code and to
kind of see that like when you look at a
ridiculously convoluted like repository
in the future you're no longer going to
be wow what a good programmer right I
got to study a lot to understand how all
this works you're going to look at it
and go this is awful I could do this a
thousand times as fast in a quarter of
the
y Max mean standard
deviation transforms
Force 1 - y over Max 4 plus F fine YT
mean YT standard deviation and then we
have YT
Norm which we
subtract YT mean yes YT standard
deviation
good and then this is going to be
normalized scores which is here this is
YT
Norm yes this should be
fine I mean there are a ton of low-l
projects you can do it doesn't have to
be puffer Ms right you can write a ton
of different projects lowle code but I
generally and you don't even have to
write C either you can write perfectly
good python it's just that the language
kind of pushes you in a direction of
writing like over stuff whereas C
doesn't give you those tools to shoot
yourself in the foot with it gives you
other ways to shoot yourself in the foot
but not design
it Norm set data
train score opt EA
perfect in Max scale
here so we get C we get log C Min log C
Max log C
Min divide by
this then we immediately take this thing
and we multiply by this and then we add
the Min back so this is nothing this
Norm doesn't
exist I mean what's it is it taught in
freaking Java then yeah probably
I told you the course that you need that
you're missing is 106
x all
right well the course you're missing is
106 I don't know if there are other
universities that have a better one but
Stanford was pretty
good oh yeah don't do that [ __ ] stay
away from well if you want to do web dev
professionally then sure but I don't
know web dev is kind of gross to
me that's like a like a whole chunk of
engineering where nothing makes sense
because people overbuild
stuff
yeah I don't know I had to fix I had to
do like most of the
website the puff. website is a pain in
the
fun this is so bizarre to me that I did
this
like how freaking tired was I how asleep
was I to do this right log
cost divide by
this and then multiply by the same turn
and then so this doesn't
exist normalize Max
do I even use this then Min log
C I don't even use
sample your suggestions
here redo points stack
sample
C
done predict scores and
costs YT Norm YT bar Norm bar on C on C
R then we do
GPC
X cuz this mess is this mess is all
redundant right so you divide and you
multiply you subtract add yeah so it's
all
redundant so GPC
I don't know karpathy has been doing a
lot of like educational stuff
lately um he does good stuff in that
space my goal is not to
be like educational as a goal it's
educational as a means right so
like in puffer in the Discord and stuff
like yeah I Mentor people who are like
willing to contribute librar so that we
can have more people around to push
forward all this cool RL research for
doing right my primary focus is on
Cutting Edge reinforcement learning
advancing the
frontier so I probably won't do anything
similar to that I made like you know
I'll make like a quick start guide or
something because it's like hey you want
to contribute this is where you get
started and then you know for every 10
people that say that they want to get
started maybe one person actually you
know goes and does the work of going
through it and then you know writing
some environments and stuff
but still we get a few
Norm normalized four where is
normalized that's at the
top YT
Norm 3
is
GPC minus Pito
C do
abs then Pito
disc
Min
Delta set
it nearest index
nearest well this doesn't make sense
hold on
nearest dis to nearest Pito and then
unnormalized nearest buritos for
have so there is a reason for
this just
death and we do Pito
D zero
this is actually C
dep Rito
forine so we've got
these unnormalized nearest
SC
um going to start writing an F thinking
of doing something in continuous
space cool I'm trying to think
what what are good things in continuous
space
did I already give you uh wait I
thought were you one of the people I
already gave an gave like somebody a
sample idea
for know I'm careful because I get out I
give out like lots of project ideas for
people and then I don't know which
people actually do them so I try not to
repeat to different people the same idea
and in case somebody's still doing it at
least for a
that we don't
have I mean I can give you stuff
that's the thing is I'm I'm hesitant to
give you stupid
fly I'm hesitant to give you anything
that's likely going to require a physics
engine
can you tell me yeah I'm trying to think
because I've given out a whole bunch of
project ideas lately and I might be
fresh
out I mean there are a ton of different
things that can be done
obviously these are all is great
lander this might be a little bit too
much cuz I like
I mean if we don't care about the
physics of this thing too much
I think there's still a little bit too
much annoying math with this
though yeah you have there's too much
annoying math with this I could simplify
it a fair bit but there still be a
little bit of annoying
math um let me think what else
I'm trying to think of like projects
that would both
be good for you to learn and also like
genuinely useful for puffer as well toal
step I want to give you something like
good that you'll be happy with that be
useful
you're not seriously recommending I give
this to this to him as like a new thing
to yeah just go Implement all this right
stuff in simulation is good though let
me think like in like
industry me
the tricky thing is that when you get to
High Fidelity continuous that's all
complicated robotic stuff I got to find
low Fidelity
continuous I mean we have a few of these
already think like what would be a good
one like something's going to be
far let me see if there's anything
obvious though
where did this come
[Music]
from was this just a GP this is a GPT
article isn't it
like literally the numbers aren't even
in order isn't that
insane I was thinking about Mario but it
has a discret uh action
space yeah look 5 4 3 2 1
5 oh actually I guess it's three
different but then they're completely
out of order as
I'm just looking for uh like what would
be a useful pretty simple continuous end
for uh rashab to implement that would be
like you know what would be something
that's pretty simple to implement that'
be useful for puffer ideally doesn't
require box 2D it's like simple enough
but will still be
I mean here let me try let me I have an
idea there's something pretty basic but
it should be enough for continuous
something uh I think that this code
still works
so
works I don't see it here but there is a
little piece of continuous
code um in the sanity you know it's in
Python uh I would I have wanted to have
a c environment basically
where this should be very easy so and I
you know you can even do it in 3D and
that would be cool um yeah this will be
great because yeah this will be this
will be perfect for you so um just like
a simple like agent Target agent has to
go to Target when Target is hit new
Target
spawns um in
3D continuous actions
I think you can put like a little bit
of like a little bit of momentum on it
as well like a little bit of
acceleration so it can't just make
perfect turns and such so you have a
heading you go forward you can turn you
know in any direction like up to a
specific amount you can accelerate you
know you can
decelerate um and go to Target in 3D I
think that would be like a pretty
nice tiny little project like 100 to 200
lines of actual C code like actual logic
excluding boiler plate and stuff you'll
be able to train that super quickly and
easily once it's correct um we can put
the puffer in as the agent in 3D if we
can load in the model that would be fun
yeah I think that there's a lot that can
be done there and we can even make it
harder if we want to because then we can
use that to like add walls in for
obstacles and then that'll be similar to
what like the Drone guys are doing at
the moment um
yeah I think that'll be similar to what
they're doing let me make sure that this
hold on let me make sure it's not
identical though because I think they
they do have an end with that let me
make sure it's not identical
yeah no they're doing a ton of
additional fantasy stuff I think
this is actually fairly similar to what
I just said
shoot
um damn it
I it's good that we have so many people
building M's but I have to come up with
more ideas
something yeah exactly right cuz like I
was going to make a Bare Bones thing but
they already have a Bare Bones thing
because it's a bear bones drone they
don't have like fancy fancy physics for
it um so let me
hey there's my there's neural
MML as my thing
many have recommended neural
MMO well that's cool because uh it's
like a 100 times better than it was
during my PhD now so if it was
recommended before it's double it's a
giga recommended
okay I think I know something we can
do nural
one is Nur Mo 3
now this is
massive runs on the web the agents run
on the web trained on 2,000 years worth
of games are just like toy little
experiment NPCs
economy swords and Bows
levels uh
consumables lots of different tiers of
items and armor and
Equipment lots of stuff this is this
agent is the one that we trained it's
playing live in the browser you can see
here it's a found it's defeated an enemy
equipped a tool from the enemy picking
up some various different drops and
stuff
yeah so this is the type of stuff that
you can build right um this is one C
file this is like one C file of brain
dead simple
Moa League of Legends DOTA as an rln of
anybody but really really
I'm going to give you something that you
can make as simple or as complicated as
you want it will be something that I
think could be
useful and it will be something that you
will be able to do at least the simplest
version of rather easily all
right and it'll be something
exciting so this is this big paper from
Deep Mind it's probably one of the top
five RL results out there um I'm not
going to make you implement all this
stuff because this would be too much
especially from the
GetGo but what you can
do I came up with a cool project for you
ready I do hope that you do this
actually now because this would be
pretty cool for us to have and I think
you'd learn a lot so here's what you do
right you make a map
colors all right and
then you spawn in some
agent it can move
forward it can turn you know uh it can
turn a certain number degrees in either
direction so it can move around in
continuous
space and it can push these
circles all right it can push these
circles now the observation is going to
be as
follows this is going to be in the first
lot here you have
have C1 which is going to be the color
of the object that you need to
move and then this is going to be
T1 this is going to be the color of the
Target that you need to push it
onto and then you have your
X your
Y and then you
have uh X comma y or
each object and flooor in a consistent
order how's that sound doesn't need a
physics
engine because it's very simple it's
only Circle Collision which is just like
radius of one minus radius of the other
it's not going to be hard to make fast
because you have a small fixed number of
objects like
this every single reset it's very easy
to generate a new task
so this is mini version of xand and if
you want to go further with this from
here you can go all the way up to X land
or anywhere in
between at the high end you would
produce something of tremendous
tremendous value to uh open source
reinforcement learning into the field
and even if you just do this this will
be a nice little task based
Benchmark yep move blob not towards
their corresponding colors you can
randomly generate this every time so
just like every time you reset the
environment just color equals you know
Rand perent 3 or whatever Target equals
Rand percent 3 so it can so essentially
what this is telling the agent is move
the blue blob onto the red
Target and if it does that it gets a
reward of
one make nice little small
maps and try that
I'm going to put this you're on the
Discord right
this is a good one right it took me it
took me a while to come up with one but
this I think I got you a very very good
one I think that the this will generally
this will work great this will be very
useful for us because it is a task based
end right task conditional you have to
rely on the OBS to tell you what to
go good
mission accomplished I'm going to use a
restroom and then I will
continue double cheing
my my code
here for like 20 minutes and then I will
go break for dinner be right
today was a good day today was a very
good day well we'll see the results of
some of the stuff I did today still but
I'm hoping hoping we did some good stuff
this looks good
and this looks very good
unnormalized nearest Pito score why is
this a
thing normalize nearest Pito for yada
yada yada
oh because I want it in uh normalized
space duh
okay why do we want un
wait unnormalized un what the hell where
is
PYT as nearest Pito
YT Okay
cool so let's uh let's see if we can get
this thing working now
AIS and
numai or tried to be smart and label it
dim that was rather dim wasn't it
oh
aito f
degraded is it just this one point
making it look
[Music]
weird let's
see we'll get another sample just to
confirm
but this looks like particularly perfect
right so we should probably check again
for uh
Max oh actually that's a good point you
be
so this portion at the bottom I think I
did a little different right
here wait but this is only for
conservative so we don't care
what just divide
yeah so this is
that right there is completely freaking
wrong so that's probably it right
there do I use
this
yeah 3o Y is just
y
see see if this produces the curve real
quick
obviously we're going to want to do a
full comparison but um if I can just get
the curve
there we go
perfect now pits with the other one
right about 50 about 50 at
[Music]
one yeah just rescaled a little
different but about a one right about
one it's about the same
under it didn't get like a 99 in there
it's okay um we will test
I just want to get this sweep
ready we'll be
okay well we will see how this does
oh I think I
man I don't know I'm I got to go get
dinner um we will see if we can get
something set up on this tonight
though I will be back later may or may
not stream we'll see but this is very
very good progress uh on all of this so
there's a couple folks still
watching
puffer all my stuff's on
puff. Star the repo to help me out it's
free join the Discord and you can follow
me on X for